# blackholeVis

TESTING

Recent developments in the field of astrophysics regarding gravitational wave detection of coalescing black holes has made it clear that black holes are not just theoretical objects of interest, but can in fact exist in the universe. Therefore, it is important to study how black holes operate and influence the astronomical bodies around them so that we can understand the consequences of such impacts.

In flat space time (assuming there are no non-gravitational forces in play) particles will travel in a straight line, but when space time is curved (as it is near a black hole, or any massive object), the paths become curved and particles lose energy to the gravitational field, which is called the gravitational redshift. The magnitude of this redshift is dependent on the mass, spin, and charge of the black hole. The motion and rotation of the blackhole can cause the light waves to be pushed closer together which makes the light bluer, which is known as a Doppler shift. The gravity near a black hole can completely change the direction of light, whose path can be completely warped. Using models to approximate light paths around a black hole is the only feasible method of study as observation with a telescope would be nearly impossible.

The objective of this project will be to use MATLAB to solve for light paths around non-rotating (Schwarzschild) and rotating (Kerr) blackholes (i.e. see photon paths for different black hole parameters and map the event horizon of the black hole). There are essentially two parts to this project – coding a working model using parameters and equations found in a couple of Special and General Relativity books I’ve found and using that model to create a visualization of the light paths. This will be done for two types of black holes. These models will need to be sensitive to parameters such as angular momentum, initial radius, mass, charge, spin, time, and view. Once this is accomplished there is additional testing to be done looking at changes in the light path as one of these parameters is changed.
